CIP-116 | Add feedback from query layer standardisation workshop #2 (#3)
klntsky/CIPs: CIP-0116/README.md

It is up to implementors to decide how to serialize the values into CBOR. The property we want to maintain is preserved regardless of the choice: for every block binary there is exactly one JSON encoding.

### Versioning

This CIP should not follow a conventional versioning scheme, rather it should be altered via pull request before a hardforks to add new a JSON schema to align with new ledger ers. Each schema must be standalone and not reuse definitions between eras. Authors MUST follow the [Schema Scope](#scope-of-the-schema), [Schema Design Principles](#schema-design-principles) and [Schema Conventions](#schema-conventions).

Furthermore, for each subsequent schema, the [changelog](./changelog.md) must be updated. Authors must clearly articulate the deltas between schemas.

## Rationale: how does this CIP achieve its goals?

### Scope

> We keep a lean scope, limited to the data types within Cardano blocks. The rationale for this is that block data is by far the most useful for the majority of Cardano actors. There is also one nice benefit that the definitions can map directly from the provided CDDL file from ledger team.

Reviewer: > We keep a lean scope, limited to the data types within Cardano blocks

It does not sound like a lean scope. It's the most wide scope we could possibly have.

Author: oops, I was being silly

Author: changed it

> Defining additional would likely add unneeded overhead to the maintenance of this standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think this gives no new information to the reader as there is no clue what these additional things could be

### Strictness

> This CIP lays out strong conventions that future schema authors must follow. With a large set of design principles and conventions. The aim for these is to minimize the potential for unavoidable deltas between schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This CIP lays out strong conventions that future schema authors must follow, along with a large set of design principles and conventions. The aim is to minimize the potential for unavoidable deltas between schemas.
```

> By setting sometimes arbitrary conventions we hope to create a single possible interpretation from CBOR to JSON. This is beneficial as it allows the development of downstream standards, which rely on a canonical JSON representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting sometimes arbitrary conventions we hope to create a single possible interpretation from CBOR to JSON, alleviating any ambiguity.
```
The rest was already stated in the motivation section.

### Absence of extensibility

The schemas MUST NOT be extensible with additional properties. This may sound counter-intuitive and against the spirit of json-schema, but there are some motivations behind that:

- More safety from typos: object fields that are optional may be specified with slightly incorrect names in dApps' code, leading to inability of the decoders to pick up the values, which may go unnoticed.
- Clear delineation between Cardano domain types and user dApp domain types: forcing the developers to store their dApp domain data separately from Cardano data, or close to it (as opposed to mixing these together in a single object) will indirectly motivate better structured dApp code.

### JSON

JSON was chosen as there is no viable alternative. The majority of Cardano's web tooling is built with Javascript where JSON is the primary object representation format.

Furthermore, even across non-Javascript based stacks, JSON enjoys wide tooling support, this improves the potential for builders to adopt this standard.

### Bech32 for addresses

> We choose to use Bech32 as the representation for Cardano addresses. When compared to the alternative of base64, Bech32 gives the advantages of an included checksum and a human readable prefix. These add additional safety to the standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We choose to use Bech32 as the representation for Cardano addresses. When compared to the alternative of hexademical encoding, Bech32 gives the advantages of an included checksum and a human readable prefix.
```

## Path to Active

### Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] One future ledger era schema is added

> - [ ] This standard is implemented within three separate tools, libraries, etc. 

Reviewer: Why three? Is this from some more general CIP guideline?

Author: Feel free to change, I feel like it is a fair number, there is no official guidelines it is up to the author

described [here](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0001#acceptance-criteria)

### Implementation Plan

> - [ ] Complete the Babbage specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Complete the Babbage specification
- [ ] Provide a test suite validating JSON fixtures for all the types against the schema 
```

It is up to implementors to decide how to serialize the values into CBOR. The property we want to maintain is preserved regardless of the choice: for every block binary there is exactly one JSON encoding.

### Versioning

This CIP should not follow a conventional versioning scheme, rather it should be altered via pull request before a hardforks to add new a JSON schema to align with new ledger ers. Each schema must be standalone and not reuse definitions between eras. Authors MUST follow the [Schema Scope](#scope-of-the-schema), [Schema Design Principles](#schema-design-principles) and [Schema Conventions](#schema-conventions).

Furthermore, for each subsequent schema, the [changelog](./changelog.md) must be updated. Authors must clearly articulate the deltas between schemas.

## Rationale: how does this CIP achieve its goals?

### Scope

We keep the scope of this standard to the data types within Cardano blocks. The rationale for this is that block data is by far the most useful for the majority of Cardano actors. There is also one nice benefit that the definitions can map directly from the provided CDDL file from ledger team.

### Strictness

> This CIP lays out strong conventions that future schema authors must follow, along with a large set of design principles and conventions. The aim is to minimize the potential for unavoidable deltas between schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This CIP lays out strong conventions that future schema authors must follow, along with a large set of design principles. The aim is to minimize the potential for unavoidable deltas between schemas.
```
